feat(avt): a11y status page and a11y status table component (#3866)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/components/overview/accessibility-status.mdx

---
title: Overview
description:
  Components are one of the key building blocks of the design system. Each
  component has been designed and coded to solve a specific UI problem.
tabs: ['Components', 'Accessibility Status']
---

import { Tag } from '@carbon/react';
import A11yStatus from 'components/A11yStatus';

<PageDescription>

Components are one of the key building blocks of the design system. Their
systematic reuse helps to create visual and functional consistency across
products.

> </PageDescription>

Author: > [!WARNING]  
> Need copy for the intro paragraph

Reviewer: My take on this:

```suggestion
<PageDescription>

Accessibility verification testing (AVT) involves the use of both manual and automated tools and software to assess the accessibility of Carbon components against established accessibility standards, such as the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).

Carbon implements a robust matrix of AVT to ensure that every Carbon component meets the utmost standards of accessibility. The status of this testing is outlined across the website through a detailed matrix of test categories and tags.

</PageDescription>
```

Author: This feels a bit long, when most pages are ~2 sentences for their intro text.
<img width="1206" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-05 at 2 14 10 PM" src="https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon-website/assets/2753488/4305c41c-ada6-48c4-be8f-e7dad8c317a2">

What about this? Maybe still too wordy?

```suggestion
<PageDescription>

Accessibility verification testing (AVT) involves the use of both manual and
automated tools and software to assess the accessibility of Carbon components
against established accessibility standards, such as the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). The status of this testing is outlined across
the website through a detailed matrix of test categories and tags.

</PageDescription>
```

Reviewer 2: The page description does need to be short and I noticed both of your options had information that  was similar to the Accessibility tag status content. So here is an option where I massaged some of your messaging underneath that header:

Page description:
Manual and automated tests assess the accessibility of Carbon components against established standards. Read on to learn about how components are tagged with test statuses across the website.

Accessibility tag status

Automated accessibility verification tests (AVT) are run for each change proposed to the Carbon codebase. Additional manual tests are done periodically, such as screenreader testing. These tests ensure a consistent baseline of accessibility for each stable component.

Carbon implements a robust matrix of AVT to ensure that every Carbon component meets the utmost standards of accessibility. The status of this testing is outlined across the website through a detailed matrix of test categories and tags, outlined below.

Author: Thanks!

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Accessibility tag status</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Accessibility tests</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>All component accessibility status</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

## Accessibility tag status

For every latest release, Carbon runs tests on all components to meet the
accessibility requirements. These different statuses report the work that Carbon
has done in the back end. These tests appear only when the components are

> stable.

Reviewer: My take at this

```suggestion
Automated accessibility verification tests are ran for each change proposed to the Carbon codebase. Additional manual tests are done periodically, such as screenreader testing. These tests ensure a consistent baseline of accessibility for each stable component. 

These accessibility tests can differ in their level of depth, breadth, and fidelity. A series of tags surface these differences throughout the website. The tags represent different levels of code test fidelity across individual components and types of testing within the system.
```

| Tag                                     | Meaning                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag>          | When all tests pass and there are no violations when running the automated Equal Access Checker on default state, advanced states, and keyboard navigation.                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag>          | Tests have been implemented, pass, and show no violations via the [IBM Equal Access Accessibility Checker](https://github.com/IBMa/equal-access) for a components' default state, advanced states, and keyboard navigation.                                                         |
```

> | <Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag> | When some tests pass or are removed, they are either combined into existing tests or substituted with new ones and moved to a different file. Skipped tests stay in the file but are clearly marked with test.skip. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag> | Some testing has been done, but is still incomplete and in progress. For example, manual tests may not have covered all use cases, or automated tests may not cover all component states. Previously existing tests may have become invalid and are temporarily skipped or removed. |
```

> | <Tag type="teal">Manually tested</Tag>  | When screen reader tests are conducted manually and validated by a human to ensure quality.                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: Manual testing has been performed and validated by a human to ensure proper accessibility, such as screen reader testing.

> | <Tag type="teal">Manually tested</Tag>  | When screen reader tests are conducted manually and validated by a human to ensure quality.                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Tag type="teal">Manually tested</Tag>  | Manual testing has been performed and validated by a human to ensure proper accessibility, such as screen reader testing.                                                                                                                         |
```

> | <Tag>Not available</Tag>                | Usually, with keyboard navigation tests or screen reader, when this type of test is not available for certain components.                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Tag>Not available</Tag>                | In some cases, testing data is not available for certain components or component states. For instance, keyboard navigation testing is not necessary for components that are non-interactive.                                                                                           |
```

> | <Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag> | Usually, with experimental or unstable components, tests have not been conducted for either automated or manual testing.                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag> | Manual and/or automated testing has been deferred. Most often this applies to experimental or unstable components that do not have testing performed until they are [moved to stable](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/blob/main/docs/experimental-code.md#moving-to-stable).                                                                                            |
```

> ## Accessibility tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessibility test categories
```

Accessibility AVT (Accessibility Automated Verification Testing) involves the
use of automated tools and software to assess the accessibility of a digital
product against established accessibility standards, such as the Web Content

> Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).

Reviewer: Every accessibility test falls into one of four categories. Marked with the tags above, these categories show the status for each of these discrete areas of testing. This additional detail helps clarify exactly what ways a component has been tested for accessibility.

> Accessibility AVT (Accessibility Automated Verification Testing) involves the
> use of automated tools and software to assess the accessibility of a digital
> product against established accessibility standards, such as the Web Content
> Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every accessibility test falls into one of four categories. Marked with the tags above, these categories show the status for each of these discrete areas of testing. This additional detail helps clarify exactly what ways a component has been tested for accessibility.
```

| Test                | Meaning                                                                                                                               | Possible Tags                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Default state       | The default state of the component                                                                                                    | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Default state       | Test(s) that ensure the initial render state of a component is accessible                                                                                                    | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                      |
```

> | Advanced states     | Other states rather than the default state of a component. These could be interactive states of a component or its multiple variants. | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Advanced states     | Tests that ensure additional states of the component are accessible. This could be interactive states of a component or its multiple variants. | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                      |
```

> | Keyboard navigation | This test ensures every action a mouse user can do should have a keyboard equivalent.                                                 | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag>Not available</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Keyboard navigation | Tests that ensure focus is properly managed, and all interactive functions of a component have a proper keyboard-accessible equivalent.                                                 | <Tag type="green">Tested</Tag><br/><Tag>Not available</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag>                                                     |
```

> | Screen reader       | This test ensures that the visual information on the screen is reinforced programmatically.                                           | <Tag>Not available</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="teal">Manually tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Screen reader       | This manual testing ensures that the visual information on the screen is properly conveyed and read correctly by screen readers such as JAWS, VoiceOver, and NVDA.                                           | <Tag>Not available</Tag><br/><Tag type="purple">Not yet tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="teal">Manually tested</Tag><br/><Tag type="blue">Partially tested</Tag> |
```

## All component accessibility status

> This table reflects the latest accessibility testing of only the stable
> components in the React framework at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table reflects the current AVT status of stable components within `@carbon/react`.
```

---
title: Overview
description:
  Components are one of the key building blocks of the design system. Each
  component has been designed and coded to solve a specific UI problem.
tabs: ['Components', 'Accessibility Status']
---

import { Tag } from '@carbon/react';
import A11yStatus from 'components/A11yStatus';

<PageDescription>

Components are one of the key building blocks of the design system. Their
systematic reuse helps to create visual and functional consistency across
products.

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Accessibility tag status</AnchorLink>

> <AnchorLink>Accessibility tests</AnchorLink>

Author: ```suggestion
<AnchorLink>Accessibility test categories</AnchorLink>
```
